Thank you, James.
I felt the need to run up just to display my tick-a-like energy.
What an introduction.
It's great, great to be able to share with you this morning.
And I've loved our dedications today.
That's been beautiful.
This message has been
It has, it's been like a big old fountain inside of me that is just bursting to come out today and it's been a funny thing because when I first began to study for it, when I first began to get the download a few weeks ago, I was in the office and I was so excited about it that I was jumping around, I was like a big contagious ball of energy and then life was kind of crept in
And I began to read a few more commentaries, and I really love studying.
I'm a total geek, so I was reading more and more and more.
And then as I sat down to put all of these kind of beautiful fountains of excitement and knowledge and Holy Spirit revelation together, every time I try to come up with this structure, oh, it was so boring.
I started reading it back and it felt like I was reading a textbook.
It felt like I was reading actually one of my dissertations from university, which was a very interesting read, but possibly would cause about 90% of you to exit the building if I made you read it.
So my prayer this morning is that beyond the bullet points that I have now reduced it down to you, what you would capture today
is directly from Holy Spirit into your heart.
So I'm going to pray because I really need that this morning.
Jesus, sometimes we cannot contain in three neat, alliterated points what you want to do and say and reveal amongst us.
And so I pray this morning that that which you gave to me
I would faithfully deliver to your precious people this morning, those in the building, those joining online.
Father, I pray that not one person would miss out on the fountains of living water that you have for us today.
So would you annoy me?
Would you help me?
Would you speak through me and in spite of me?
Amen.
Well, the invitation came, didn't it, on Vision Sunday?
We as a church are in our centenary year, and there's lots to be excited for, but we really feel it's time for each of us to step into the story that God is writing in and through us, and the story that He wants to write for the next 100 years.
Everybody in this room and joining us online, we all have a part to play in that narrative.
nobody is on the margins or excluded and we have this sense that there is new glory for us to experience the heavy weighty presence of God that changes hearts and changes lives but we also have this sense that as we experience His glory there is new life
that is springing up and I am encouraged to say that those signs of life are really evident in our midst at the moment.
It's hugely exciting to see what God is doing.
Bev Murrell followed up with an incredible talk about systems and wells, no, systems and springs.
She was talking about us not drawing from these man-made structures that are contained with stagnant water, but drawing from the source of all life itself from Jesus.
And I'm mentioning and referring back to that because it's really pertinent for what I would like to share today.
Now, when we moved into our house about 14 years ago now, one of the things that really
cracked me up on our first ever morning in our new house.
Is it Pete went into the bathroom and he was taking a shower and all I could hear was this crazy laughter.
He was laughing out loud.
He was laughing and laughing and laughing.
So when he finally came out, I was like, what was making you laugh?
And he went, you will not believe how powerful that shower is.
And this matters, right?
It matters because the house that we had been living with, living in, it took you so long to wash long hair.
It was like a little trickle of water.
There was no deluge or power behind it.
And so the contrast between our old house and our new people are nodding at me because you know there are some living in this room and you know what it feels like to stand under a shower and wish that you could get your hair wet.
this shower, it's so powerful.
And he was, he was just overjoyed.
He was absolutely overjoyed by the power of this water.
I know, I mean, we're easy.
We're easy to please in our, in our family.
But as I have been praying for us since the start of the year,
I just keep seeing the same picture and every time I pray for the church I see this auditorium and I see
these fountains springing up in different places.
And I'm not talking a nice sprinkly Rome style fountain, my friends.
I am talking the kind of eruption of water.
I think they call them geezers, and we feel right at home in Essex saying that, don't we?
Geezers, they're these kind of bursts of water, and they are so powerful that I reckon if you were standing underneath, you'd be propelled into midair, that kind of thing.
seeing them, springing up in different places in the auditorium and then the water begins to hydrate and refresh everybody around it until there is so much water that it begins to stream like a river out of the building and into the surrounding area.
There is an invitation that heaven wants to extend to you and to me today.
to step into a season of living water.
Drawn from the source and not from the system.
And I want to take a look at living water today.
And I'm going to be majoring on a passage in John.
If you have your Bible, I love you to follow with me.
I haven't put it onto slides because it's 42 verses, which is a lot to put onto slides.
So please follow with me, John 4.
I'm reading from verse 1 to 42 and I'll try and do it as fast as I can without putting you off.
Are you ready?
Come on then, let's do it.
Now, Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that he was gaining and baptizing more disciples than John.
Although, in fact, it was not Jesus who baptized but his disciples.
So, he left Judea and went back once more to Galilee.
Now, he had to go through Samaria.
So, he came to a town in Samaria called Sicka.
Near the plot of ground, Jacob had given to his son, Joseph.
Jacob's well was there, and Jesus, tired as he was from the journey, sat down by the well.
It was about noon, hold that thought.
When a Samaritan woman came to draw water, Jesus said to her, will you give me a drink?
His disciples had gone into the town to buy food.
The Samaritan women said to him, you are a Jew and I am a Samaritan woman.
How can you ask me for a drink?
For Jews do not associate with Samaritans.
Jesus answered her, if you knew the gift of God and who it is that asks you for a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you living water.
Are you greater than our father, Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did also his sons and his livestock?
Jesus answered, everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again.
But whoever drinks the water, I give them will never thirst.
Indeed, the water I give them will become in them a spring of water, welling up to eternal life.
The woman said to him, sir, give me this water so that I won't get thirsty and have to keep humming here to draw water.
He told her, go, call your husband and come back.
I have no husband, she replied.
Jesus said to her, you are right when you say you have no husband.
The fact is you have had five husbands and the man you now have is not your husband.
What you have just said is quite true.
Sir, the woman said,
I can see that you're a prophet.
Our ancestors worshipped on this mountain, but you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem.
Women, Jesus replied, believe me.
A time is coming when you will worship the Father, neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem.
You Samaritans worship what you do not know.
We worship what we do know for salvation is from the Jews, yet
A time is coming and has now come when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirits and in truth, for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks.
God is spirit and his worshipers must worship in the spirits and in truth.
The woman said, I know that Messiah called Christ is coming.
When he comes, he will explain everything to us.
Then Jesus declared, I, the one speaking to you, I am he.
Just then his disciples returned and were surprised to find him talking with a woman, but no one asked, what do you want?
Or why are you talking with her?
Then leaving her water jar, hold that thought.
The woman went back to the town and said to the people, come see a man who told me
everything I've ever done.
Could this be the Messiah?
They came out of the town and made their way towards Him.
Meanwhile, His disciples urged Him, Rabbi, eat something.
But He said to them, I have food to eat that you know nothing about.
Then His disciples said to each other, could someone have brought Him food?
My food said Jesus is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work.
Don't you have a saying, it's still four months until harvest.
I tell you, open your eyes, look at the fields, they are ripe for harvest.
Even now the one who reaps draws a wage and harvests a crop for eternal life so that the sower and the reaper may be glad together.
I'm just going to move on to verse 39.
Many of the Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the women's testimony.
He told me everything I've ever done.
So when the Samaritans came to him, they urged him to stay with them and he stayed two days.
And because of his words, many more became believers.
Wow.
what an incredible passage.
And if you've been around church for any length of time, you have probably heard that passage several times before.
And I think part of what has tied me in knots is that there is just so much in there that I would love the time to unpack.
But the truth is I'm going to take probably a slightly different angle in places.
And that is, you know, it's to the detriment of some other things, but I think that's okay.
So,
First up, I want to give us a bit of context, because this beautiful encounter between Jesus and the Samaritan women takes place at Jacob's Well.
Now, interestingly, when we think back to Bev's talk about systems and springs, Jacob's Well in the Greek is actually described as a freya.
A freya.
And that means a pit.
or a cistern, as opposed to a piggy, which would be a spring or a fountain.
Commentaries tell us that this well largely functioned as a cistern, and this is no mistake.
Here is Jesus, the source of living water, the fountain, the spring itself sitting by a man-made cistern.
Secondly, this encounter took place in the bright noonday sun.
This matters not only because it tells us a lot about the Samaritan women and many of us will have heard that it's likely she was ostracized.
It was likely that she's a woman with a history and she probably came to that well alone.
Because she didn't have that community of women to go with for whatever reason, she was a lonely, vulnerable, perhaps even victimized women.
Normally women would travel for safety and culturally appropriate reasons in groups to the well.
But it's also really interesting because it's a direct contrast to chapter three
and an encounter that Jesus has with a very important religious leader named Nicodemus.
Now this guy, he's in the Sanhedrin.
He's a really important Jewish leader, but he seeks Jesus out under cover of nightfall.
Why?
He's afraid of risking his reputation.
He's afraid to be associated with Jesus, even though he's curious.
This is a man who knows there must be more
But under cover of night, he approaches.
And interestingly, Nicodemus leaves that encounter still in spiritual darkness.
He's on a journey, but he does not yet believe that Jesus is the Messiah.
And that picture of darkness is important because it not only describes the cover of nightfall, but it describes the confusion in his heart.
Contrast that with a Samaritan woman.
She is not a Jew.
She is not a leader.
She is not somebody considered important culturally.
She is a woman and a Samaritan.
And Jesus seeks out an encounter with her in the noonday sun, the brightest, lightest, hottest part of the day.
Isn't that incredible?
Jesus has an appointment with this woman.
And it's the most incredible contrast between the two, this night and day moment that is about to transpire for this beautiful woman.
And unlike Nicodemus, she gets the memo from Jesus and she believes that he's the son of God and she is radically transformed.
She heads away back to her city as the first
ever woman preacher of the good news.
How groundbreaking and radical is that?
Yes.
Oh, there's so much I could share and could give to you about that Samaritan woman.
But I don't want to go there today because I want us to think about living water in this passage.
You see, this woman, she comes to draw water.
that will satiate her physical thirst for a short time.
This is not living water.
It's cistern water.
It's stagnant.
It's a little bit stale.
And it will quench her thirst temporarily.
But very soon she's going to need to return to that well again.
Interesting.
that the jar that she has brought is going to be enough for her and possibly a few others.
In fact, she even mentions that.
She talks about Jacob's well and how it was good for him and his household.
But this jar is never going to be able to satiate the thirst of a whole city.
It's enough for me and mine.
That's important.
And everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again.
The thirst is real.
There are people all around us thirsty.
for something more.
Maybe even you and I are sitting here today wondering if this is all there is to life.
We get up, we're on a conveyor belt or a treadmill or whichever image you would like to use.
And we're thirsty for something more and yet somehow we seem to fill our lives, fill our spirits, fill our minds with that which never truly satisfies and we have to keep going back and back again for more.
but we don't feel satiated.
And here is Jesus, the source of living water, sitting by the well and offering her something greater, something life-changing, something life-giving, something that will truly satisfy
He can see that this woman is thirsty for more than the stagnant, stale, well water in front of her.
There is a spiritual thirst that nothing has touched.
Something is missing.
And Jesus says, whoever drinks the water I give will never thirst.
And it's a no brainer for her.
She says, give me this water so that I will not get thirsty.
And she's probably still thinking about her body.
But they have this incredible exchange.
And Jesus suddenly reveals her identity first and foremost.
the things in her life where she's been filled with other things and actually they're things that have broken her systems and structures that have been so rigid that she has been oppressed and downtrodden and he speaks into the core and the essence and the heart of who she is and he truly sees her in that moment but then he reveals his
identity.
And he tells this Samaritan woman, double disqualification, Samaritan woman, that he is the Messiah.
That is mind-blowing.
And it's like this Taddah moment as a woman who has been written off by society, by her culture, maybe even by herself, but that is me speculating on the text.
is written in to the greatest story ever told.
Wow!
That blows my mind.
But this for me is the crux of where I'm going with this today.
She has changed.
She dares to believe.
that Jesus is who he says he is.
And as that transformation process takes place, as she puts her trust in him, that which has temporarily sufficed to meet
her ongoing thirst, that which represents the rigidity, the the finite, the temporal, the stuff that is here today but we're going to have to keep coming back again and again and it never truly quenches that
ache inside is left behind.
She leaves behind her water jar.
And this really matters.
And honestly, I've never noticed that before.
I've noticed so many other things about this passage, but this is so significant.
Why has she left her water jar behind?
Well, that's because she doesn't need it anymore.
She doesn't need the cyst and man-made well water that keeps her contained, that causes her to have to keep coming back again and again from this place of insatiable thirst.
Because she's standing on the fountain of living water.
It's springing up inside of her and it is bursting out of her and she no longer needs that container.
Wow.
she leaves the jar behind because she has found something that will permanently satisfy, something that is so abundant that it will flow out from her and into the whole of her city, something far greater than the water that she has been sustained by hitherto.
The jar she leaves behind
represents so many things, but I wonder what the jar might represent for you and me today, living in the times that we do.
How often do we rely on ourselves, I wonder?
How much of our life is designed to satisfy and gratify ourselves?
We work.
so that we can have more things, so that we can do more things and please don't get me wrong.
That is not wrong in and of itself.
But if we are on this constant treadmill to gratify our own needs, to satisfy ourselves, if we live our lives so focused on that which will sustain me and possibly mine,
We are missing out on the purpose of living water.
And the truth is that this is a woman who didn't know about living water, but most of us sitting in this room today, we do know about living water.
And yet, we feel ourselves
up with stagnant, stale, dank water that will never suffice.
And we wonder why we're kicking around church.
We've heard all the sermons.
We've read all the books.
We've listened to the podcast, but we're still thirsty for more.
Why?
Because we're missing the living water.
Church, we need to leave our jars behind because there is only one source of living water.
And his name is Jesus.
And that is the difference between a system and a spring.
Why do we settle for well water when we have access to the source of living water himself?
Why do we continue to live our lives in a rigid and restricted place containing and confining the living water of God's spirit into a small man-made jar?
heads down, survival mode, working hard, having to come back depleted when we were designed to be channels, freely flowing fountains.
Are you thirsty for more than this?
There's a difference between existing and being alive.
There's a difference between well water in a jar and fountains of living water.
You see, one is rigid and finite, and one is free and flowing, abundant, refreshing, teeming with life and designed to give life to far more than just little old me.
And I feel
that one of the Moses is dead moments.
Do you remember on Vision Sunday, we talked about a new church rising, a new era.
Moses is dead, now you, and that's you and me, it's all of us.
But I think that one of the metaphorical Moses is dead moments is that it's time for us here at Skylark Church to leave behind our jars of self-sufficiency.
God is calling us
to be that generation of believers who won't settle for our own superficial and self-serving systems, but who will draw the supernatural abundance sustaining spring of living water from the source that is found in Jesus.
And this water is not only going to benefit us, it's going to benefit everyone around us.
The water is not just intended for you and for me.
The people left the city and they were coming to him.
This woman, she leaves her jar.
She takes that living water and she begins to overflow and offer it to all those around her.
And they're like, wow, you are so different.
What on earth has happened to you?
And she's saying, this could be the Messiah.
This guy, he told me everything I ever did.
And something about this living water inside of her, it flows and it touches their hearts.
And before you know it, here they come.
They're coming towards Jesus.
Most of the city are approaching because they want to find the source for themselves.
Living water is not designed just for you, my friends.
It's designed for all those around us.
We are called to be channels of peace, channels of grace, channels of healing, channels of comfort, channels of his glory and channels of the good news of his kingdom.
So there's this moment and all of the Samaritans are coming towards Jesus and they want to discover the source for themselves.
But there's this beautiful word that cuts across the moment.
Meanwhile, meanwhile, back in Gotham City, meanwhile, the disciples rock up.
And they raise an eyebrow because it's really unorthodox that Jesus is having this conversation with a woman and they don't like to ask anything about it as we read.
But they miss the moment.
They miss the moment.
They are so focused on very helpfully feeding Jesus' physical body
They want to give him something to eat.
They want to look after him.
That is part of their job.
That's good.
They're trying to serve him to make sure he doesn't burn out.
All of that matters.
But they miss the moment because their head is so focused on the detail, on the rigid, on the structure, on the physical that they can't see this incredible spiritual moment that is unfolding before their eyes.
All these people coming towards Jesus thirsty,
for his life-giving water.
And Jesus, he explains that.
He's like, dude, you've missed the point here.
I've got food that you know nothing about.
My food is to do the will of him who sent me.
And he says, lift up your eyes.
In other words, stop looking at the micro.
Lift up your eyes.
The harvest is all around you.
I know that this doesn't look like harvest time in the natural, but in the spiritual, there is a harvest and you're going to miss it if all you can see is your own physical needs.
Church, there's a difference between being filled and being fulfilled.
And when I talk about filled, I mean physically filled.
We need food and drink to survive.
We need jobs and money and all of those other things.
But sometimes we are in danger of filling up with so much stuff that never fulfills us that we miss this incredible kingdom vista around us.
I don't know about you, but I don't want to miss the moment because we are in a moment of time where we are poised as the people of God to be those channels of love
like never before.
Let's not miss the moment.
A woman changed.
A city changed.
Those previously written off, written in, all because she received the living water that is Jesus and carried it back to those around her.
The end of the text tells us that many Samaritans believed in him and trusted in him.
And then they urged him to stay.
They didn't want to let go of the living water that they had found.
And many more people believed in him with a deep abiding trust.
So how about us today?
I wonder if anyone is thirsty in this room.
Perhaps you have spent all you have on things that fill you, but can never fulfill you.
Perhaps you've encountered the living water of Jesus, but like the disciples, your head has been down on the minutiae, on survival mode, on doing what needs to be done, that you are missing this glorious life-giving spiritual picture that is all around you.
It's time to leave our jars behind.
The Holy Spirit cannot be contained in a man-made water jar.
It's time to stop laboring and striving for that which does not truly satisfy.
It's time to stop settling for stagnant stale water from our own systems and jars and to start drawing directly from the source of living water that is Jesus himself
It's time to stop coming back to the well again and again and to become those fountains of living water for others around us.
We are a product of our consumer generation and so often we settle for me and mine when we are designed to be the light and the life to all around us.
I want to invite us to stand in this moment.
I'm just going to leave us in silence whilst we do this part because I don't want
anything to feel kind of emotionally hyped.
But I just know that Jesus wants to meet our thirst today with the living water of his presence and his spirit.
And if you're here today and you feel like you have tried everything and you're exhausted
and you're depleted and you don't feel like your life in Christ is alive and vibrant.
Can I put it to you that this might be a moment to simply receive the living waters?
It can't be earned.
You'll never be good enough.
You can't work hard enough for it.
It is a beautiful gift from our Father in heaven.
And the linchpin, believing, all you have to do is reach out in your heart and believe that he is who he says he is.
Perhaps you could imagine your jar today, the cistern from which you have been drawing.
And perhaps you could imagine yourself leaving it behind in pursuit of the living water that truly transforms.
If today you would like to receive that living water, whether you have been a Christian for 90 years or whether you are not even a Christian yet,
The invitation from heaven is for every single one of us.
If you would like to receive living waters, I'm simply going to ask you, as a sign of that, just to pop your hands out openly in front of you, and I would love to pray for you today.
Thank you, God.
we need you.
Please forgive us.
Please forgive us for the times that we keep our head down, focused on survival, focus on the physical, focused on acquiring more, trying to satiate our thirst with things that will never truly fulfill us.
Right now, I pray Holy Spirit
you would fill each one of us with your living water.
That as we believe in our hearts, that Jesus is the Son of God.
that we would receive that life-giving water, and I pray that fountains of living water would spring up in each of us, not just for ourselves, for a goose bump or an encounter, but for the benefit of our city and our world, that we would be those channels that flow out and offer life-giving water to all those around us.
Lord, we
need you.
Forgive our self-sufficiency, forgive our self-reliance and I pray that you would teach us to live each day as those fountains let the rivers of living water flow in us and through us.
So come Holy Spirit.